# Proposal: Documentation Improvement

The project needs a better documentation, including the API documentation, structure revision, useful keycloak-js configuration and a FAQ.

---

## <a name="toc"></a> Table of Contents

* [Proposed By](#prb)
* [History](#his)
* [Reason to add](#rta)
* [Implementation Details](#imd)
  * [README Modification](#rdm)
  * [Project Folder](#pjf)
  * [API Documentation](#api)
  * [Creation of Missing Documentation Files](#cmd)
  * [Generate Site with Docsify](#gsd)
  * [Github (.github) Config File](#ghc)

---

## <a name="prb"></a> Proposed By

* Name: Mauricio Gemelli Vigolo
* Created in: 2018-04-09
* Github user: [mauriciovigolo](https://github.com/mauriciovigolo)

### <a name="his"></a> History

|    Date    |                        User                         | Details                          |
| :--------: | :-------------------------------------------------: | -------------------------------- |
| 2018-04-09 | [mauriciovigolo](https://github.com/mauriciovigolo) | Initial version of this document |

## <a name="rta"></a> Reason to add

The library needs a better documentation including its API description, library config and the keycloak-js setup as some users are having problems to configure it in their apps (observed in opened issues).

Type: **Necessary**

List of possible types:

* Security threat: must be fixed as it is a security threat.
* Necessary: Should be added/done, it is a must do. Examples: bugfix.
* Good feature: It is a good feature and it would aggregate value to the lib.
* Dispensable: It is a feature that would not aggregate to much to the lib and if not possible, won't affect too much.

## <a name="imd"></a> Implementation Details

The library documentation needs a restructuring as follows:

1.  README file will contain just a getting started and macro information about the library.
2.  Creation of a project folder, which will contains info related to enhancements in the proposals folder and important information as the project roadmap.
3.  API documentation.
4.  Creation of missing documentation files.
5.  Generate site using [docsify](https://docsify.js.org).
6.  Add the .github folder and the templates folder as well the github config file. to automatically take some actions.

### <a name="rdm"></a> README Modification

The README needs to be simple and reformulated. If a user needs complementary information, the full documentation on the project documentation site should be consulted.
The new readme will have the following topics:

* About
* Table of Contents
* Quick Start
  * Setup
* Examples
* Services
* Interceptors
* Contributors
* Roadmap
* License

### <a name="pjf"></a> Project Folder

A project folder will be created inside the docs. It will shelter the proposals and the project roadmap.

The proposals folder will have the following structure:

* request-for-change: folder to place the proposal for a new feature or library enhancement.
* to-be-evaluated: after requesting the team will analyse the RFC and check if it is worth to be included.
* in-progress: after evaluation the proposal will be developed. In this phase it will be in the in-progress folder.
* done: after developed and incorporated to the library, the document will be placed in this folder. Then the documentation will be updated in accordance to this doc and will be available for future access.

**Why it is important to document the proposals?** Because it is a way to better think about a new feature, get the community opinion and if approved it will help to built the library documentation.

### <a name="api"></a> API Documentation

The API documentation will be generated automatically using the [jsdoc-to-markdown](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsdoc-to-markdown) library. It will generate the markdown files from the jsdocs, that will be further used by docsify.

### <a name="cmd"></a> Creation of Missing Documentation Files

The library needs a better documentation regarding the setup, config of keycloak and keycloak-js file, compatibility list and frequently asked questions.
The following files will be created:

* getting-started - general infos about the library and how to install, setup the application.
* keycloak-general-info - infos regarding the keycloak, for example: how to create an instance using docker or downloading the library. Links to the official documentation.
* keycloak-compatibility-list - List of keycloak versions that this is library is compatible with.
* faq - frequently asked questions on github issues.
* full-library-documentation - full documentation about all the services, interceptors and library info.

### <a name="gsd"></a> Generate Site with Docsify

The documentation site will be generated by [docsify](https://docsify.js.org). This project takes the markdown project documentation files and exposes it in a fashion way.
The generated site will be available at the docs folder and the source documentation markdown files will be inside the docs folder at the docs-src folder.

No plugins will be used at first. The documentation site will have a sidebar and will be available in English (en_US) as well as in Portuguese (pt_BR).

The documentation must have a cover page with the project logo and a nice background.

### <a name="ghc"></a> Github (.github) Config File

The project must have a .github folder to add the following files:

* ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md - template for the issues that will be opened in the future. A good issue must include the angular, keycloak-angular, keycloak-js versions as well as a project (source) with the user is having problems with the configuration.
* PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md - template for the pull requests.
* stale.yml - contains the maximum period of time that the project will allow an issue to be opened in the case of inactivity.
